# Explain

Explain is a project developed from Aries to create explanation from plan.
You can use explain on your own plan generated by your own planificator. 

# Aries

Aries is a project aimed at exploring constraint-based techniques for automated planning and scheduling.
It is currently under heavy development and generaly should not be considered stable or efficient (even thought some part are).

## Building

Build relies on `cargo` can be triggered like so:

```
cargo build # debug non-optimized build
cargo build --release ## optimized build
```

This build compile artifacts and place them in the `target/debug` or `target/release` directory.

## Executable

- `explain`: a tool to create explanation for a plan from a PDDL problem.


```
cargo install --bin explain --path . 
``` 

To use explain you can do 
```
./target/release/explain <way/to/problem.pddl> <way/to/plan> <Options>
```

Options available for explain
```
-d domain           # To give manually the domain of the problem
-s                  # To create dot file for support
-m                  # To create dot file for threat
-t                  # To create dot file for temporal representation
-q question         # Ask question
-i                  # interactive mode
```

Form of the question "question parameters"

Questions available:

    -support <step>                             #Display others steps support by step 

    -supported <step>                           #Display others steps support of step

    -goal <step>                                #Display true if step accomplish a goal

    -necessary <step>                           #Display if step participates to the accomplishment of a goal, necessary-d to have the shortest path

    -path <source-step> <target-step>           #Display path between two steps, path-d to have the path.

    -threat <source-step> <target-step>         #Display if source step threat target-step if it put right before.

    -betweeness <n-score>                       #Display all step with a betweeness upper than the n-th score.

    -synchro <parameters>                       #Display step that make link between group based on parameters

    -parallelizable <step> <step>               #Display a boolean to know if the two steps are parallelizable, parallelizable-d to have more detail


Example of question : "support 4"

-i                  # interactive mode

    support-graph   Generate dot support and display matrix support
    threat-graph   Generate dot threat and display matrix threat
    q   Question same format as option without "" 
    gg  Make plan with aries planificator if you have suspicion about your plan
    p   Display plan
    h   Help
    e   exit

if you want to use your dot file to make a graph, use graphviz with:

dot -Tpng graphique.dot -o graph.png

Or

xdot